docs/tutorials/props_json.md, before:

# Properties from a JSON file

This tutorial will provide an example of saving and subsequently loading a `Properties` object from a JSON file.

## Initialize Runtime

To start, we'll import `Acquire` and create a `Runtime` object, which coordinates the streaming process.

```python
import acquire
runtime = acquire.Runtime()
```

## Configure Camera

All camera settings are captured by an instance of the `Properties` class, which will be associated with a given camera acquisition. 

```python
# Instantiate a Properties object for the Runtime
config = runtime.get_configuration()
```
You can update any of the settings in this instance of `Properties`. To save any updated settings, use the `set_configuration` method.  For this tutorial, we'll simply specify a camera, and then save these new settings. Note that more settings must be provided before this `Properties` object could be used for an acquistion. Check out [this tutorial](configure.md) for more information on configuring an acquisition.

```python
# set the radial sine simulated camera as the first video stream
config.video[0].camera.identifier = runtime.device_manager().select(acquire.DeviceKind.Camera, "simulated: radial sin")

# save the updated settings
config = runtime.set_configuration(config)
```

## Save Properties to a JSON file
We'll utilize the [json library](https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html#) to write our properties to a JSON file to save for subsequent acquisition.

```python
import json

# cast the properties to a dictionary
config = config.dict()

# convert the dictionary to json with "human-readable" formatting
config = json.dumps(config, indent=4, sort_keys=True)

# save the properties to file "sample_props.json" in the current directory
with open("sample_props.json", "w") as outfile:
    outfile.write(config)
```

## Example JSON file
The resulting sample_props.json file is below:

~~~json
{% include "../examples/sample_props.json" %}
~~~

## Load Properties from a JSON file
You can load the settings in the JSON file to a `Properties` object and set this configuration for your `Runtime` as shown below:

```python
import acquire
import json

# create a Runtime object
runtime = acquire.Runtime()

# Instantiate a `Properties` object from the settings in sample_props.json
config = acquire.Properties(**json.load(open('sample_props.json')))

# save the properties for this instance of Runtime
config = runtime.set_configuration(config)
```

Commit message:

Add jupytext (#68)
Adds download button to all tutorials; scripts to be downloaded are only built on push to main.

docs/tutorials/props_json.md, after:

# Properties from a JSON file

This tutorial will provide an example of saving and subsequently loading a `Properties` object from a JSON file.

## Initialize Runtime

To start, we'll import `Acquire` and create a `Runtime` object, which coordinates the streaming process.

```python
import acquire
runtime = acquire.Runtime()
```

## Configure Camera

All camera settings are captured by an instance of the `Properties` class, which will be associated with a given camera acquisition.

```python
# Instantiate a Properties object for the Runtime
config = runtime.get_configuration()
```

You can update any of the settings in this instance of `Properties`. To save any updated settings, use the `set_configuration` method.  For this tutorial, we'll simply specify a camera, and then save these new settings. Note that more settings must be provided before this `Properties` object could be used for an acquistion. Check out [this tutorial](configure.md) for more information on configuring an acquisition.

```python
# set the radial sine simulated camera as the first video stream
config.video[0].camera.identifier = runtime.device_manager().select(acquire.DeviceKind.Camera, "simulated: radial sin")

# save the updated settings
config = runtime.set_configuration(config)
```

## Save Properties to a JSON file
We'll utilize the [json library](https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html#) to write our properties to a JSON file to save for subsequent acquisition.

```python
import json

# cast the properties to a dictionary
config = config.dict()

# convert the dictionary to json with "human-readable" formatting
config = json.dumps(config, indent=4, sort_keys=True)

# save the properties to file "sample_props.json" in the current directory
with open("sample_props.json", "w") as outfile:
    outfile.write(config)
```

## Example JSON file
The resulting sample_props.json file is below:

~~~json
{% include "../examples/sample_props.json" %}
~~~

## Load Properties from a JSON file
You can load the settings in the JSON file to a `Properties` object and set this configuration for your `Runtime` as shown below:

```python
import acquire
import json

# create a Runtime object
runtime = acquire.Runtime()

# Instantiate a `Properties` object from the settings in sample_props.json
config = acquire.Properties(**json.load(open('sample_props.json')))

# save the properties for this instance of Runtime
config = runtime.set_configuration(config)
```

[Download this tutorial as a Python script](props_json.py){ .md-button .md-button-center }
