docs/tutorials/setup.md, before:

# Utilizing the Setup Method

This tutorial will provide an example of utilizing the [setup method](https://github.com/acquire-project/acquire-python/blob/ce0764e86bf1d10eb3a447eb670c28808ab3da3b/python/acquire/__init__.py#L41) to configure `Runtime` and specify some basic properties.

## Setup Function Definition

```python
def setup(
    runtime: Runtime,
    camera: Union[str, List[str]],
    storage: Union[str, List[str]],
    output_filename: Optional[str],
) -> Properties
```

The `setup` function can be used as a shorthand to simplify the `Runtime` configuration process. `setup` takes a `Runtime` object and strings of the camera and storage device names and returns a `Properties` object. You may also optionally specify the filename for writing the data. 

## Example

```python
import acquire

# Initialize a Runtime object
runtime = acquire.Runtime()

# use setup to get configuration and set the camera, storage, and filename
config = acquire.setup(runtime, "simulated: radial sin", "Zarr", "out.zarr")
```
You can subsequently use `config` to specify additional settings and set those configurations before beginning acquisition. 

Without using setup, the process would take a few additional lines of codes. The below code is equivalent to the example above.

```python
import acquire

# Initialize a Runtime object
runtime = acquire.Runtime()

# Grab the current configuration
config = runtime.get_configuration() 

# Select the radial sine simulated camera as the video source
config.video[0].camera.identifier = runtime.device_manager().select(acquire.DeviceKind.Camera, "simulated: radial sin") 

# Set the storage to Zarr to have the option to save multiscale data
config.video[0].storage.identifier = runtime.device_manager().select(acquire.DeviceKind.Storage, "Zarr")

# Set the output file to out.zarr
config.video[0].storage.settings.filename = "out.zarr"
```

In either case, we can update the configuration settings using:

```python
config = runtime.set_configuration(config)
```

Commit message:

Add jupytext (#68)
Adds download button to all tutorials; scripts to be downloaded are only built on push to main.

docs/tutorials/setup.md, after:

# Utilizing the Setup Method

This tutorial will provide an example of utilizing the [setup method](https://github.com/acquire-project/acquire-python/blob/ce0764e86bf1d10eb3a447eb670c28808ab3da3b/python/acquire/__init__.py#L41) to configure `Runtime` and specify some basic properties.

## Setup Function Definition

```python
def setup(
    runtime: Runtime,
    camera: Union[str, List[str]],
    storage: Union[str, List[str]],
    output_filename: Optional[str],
) -> Properties
```

The `setup` function can be used as a shorthand to simplify the `Runtime` configuration process. `setup` takes a `Runtime` object and strings of the camera and storage device names and returns a `Properties` object. You may also optionally specify the filename for writing the data.

## Example

```python
import acquire

# Initialize a Runtime object
runtime = acquire.Runtime()

# use setup to get configuration and set the camera, storage, and filename
config = acquire.setup(runtime, "simulated: radial sin", "Zarr", "out.zarr")
```
You can subsequently use `config` to specify additional settings and set those configurations before beginning acquisition.

Without using setup, the process would take a few additional lines of codes. The below code is equivalent to the example above.

```python
import acquire

# Initialize a Runtime object
runtime = acquire.Runtime()

# Grab the current configuration
config = runtime.get_configuration()

# Select the radial sine simulated camera as the video source
config.video[0].camera.identifier = runtime.device_manager().select(acquire.DeviceKind.Camera, "simulated: radial sin")

# Set the storage to Zarr to have the option to save multiscale data
config.video[0].storage.identifier = runtime.device_manager().select(acquire.DeviceKind.Storage, "Zarr")

# Set the output file to out.zarr
config.video[0].storage.settings.filename = "out.zarr"
```

In either case, we can update the configuration settings using:

```python
config = runtime.set_configuration(config)
```

[Download this tutorial as a Python script](setup.py){ .md-button .md-button-center }
