docs/tutorials/start_stop.md, before:

# Multiple Acquisitions

This tutorial will provide an example of starting, stopping, and restarting acquisition, or streaming from a video source. 

## Configure Streaming

To start, we'll create a `Runtime` object and configure the streaming process. To do this, we'll utilize the setup method. More information on that method is detailed in [this tutorial](https://acquire-project.github.io/acquire-docs/tutorials/setup).

```python
import acquire

# Initialize a Runtime object
runtime = acquire.Runtime()

# Grab current configuration and
# Choose Video Source and Storage Device
config = acquire.setup(runtime, "simulated: radial sin", "Tiff")

# Specify settings    
config.video[0].storage.settings.filename == "out.tif"
config.video[0].camera.settings.shape = (192, 108)
config.video[0].camera.settings.exposure_time_us = 10e4
config.video[0].max_frame_count = 10

# Update the configuration with the chosen parameters 
config = runtime.set_configuration(config) 
```

## Start, Stop, and Restart Acquisition

During Acquisition, the `AvailableData` object is the streaming interface. Upon shutdown, `Runtime` deletes all of the objects created during acquisition to free up resources, and you must stop acquisition by calling `runtime.stop()` to shutdown after the max frames is collected or `runtime.abort()` to shutdown immediately) between acquisitions. Otherwise, an exception will be raised.

To understand how acquisition works, we'll start, stop, and repeat acquisition and print the `DeviceState`, which can be `Armed`, `AwaitingConfiguration`, `Closed`, or `Running`, as well as print the `AvailableData` object throughout the process.

If acquisition has ended, all of the objects are deleted, including `AvailableData` objects, so those will be `None` when not acquiring data. In addition, if enough time hasn't elapsed since acquisition started, `AvailableData` will also be `None`. We'll utilize the `time` python package to introduce time delays to account for these facts. 

```python
# package used to introduce time delays
import time

# start acquisition
runtime.start()

print(runtime.get_state())
print(runtime.get_available_data(0))

# wait 0.5 seconds to allow time for data to be acquired
time.sleep(0.5)

print(runtime.get_state())
print(runtime.get_available_data(0))

# stop acquisition
runtime.stop()

print(runtime.get_state())
print(runtime.get_available_data(0))

# start acquisition
runtime.start()

# time delay of 5 sec > 1 sec acquisition time
time.sleep(5)

print(runtime.get_state())
print(runtime.get_available_data(0))

# stop acquisition
runtime.stop()
```

The output will be:

```
DeviceState.Running
None
DeviceState.Running
<builtins.AvailableData object at 0x00000218D685E5B0>
DeviceState.Armed
None
DeviceState.Armed
<builtins.AvailableData object at 0x00000218D685E3D0>
```
1. The first time we print is immediately after starting acquisition, so no time has elapsed for data collection as compared to the camera exposure time, so while the camera is running, `Running`, there is no data available.
   
3. The next print happens after waiting 0.5 seconds, so acquisition is still runnning and now there is acquired data available.
   
5. The subsequent print is following calling `runtime.stop()` which waits until the specified max number of frames is collected and then terminates acquisition. Thus, the device is no longer running and there is no available data, since all objects were deleted by calling the `stop` method. The device is in an `Armed` state ready for the next acquisition.
   
7. The final print occurs after waiting 5 seconds following the start of acquisition. This waiting period is longer than the 1 second acqusition time (0.1 seconds/frame and 10 frames), so the device is no longer collecting data. However, `runtime.stop()` hasn't been called, so the `AvailableData` object has not yet been deleted.

Commit message:

Add jupytext (#68)
Adds download button to all tutorials; scripts to be downloaded are only built on push to main.

docs/tutorials/start_stop.md, after:

# Multiple Acquisitions

This tutorial will provide an example of starting, stopping, and restarting acquisition, or streaming from a video source.

## Configure Streaming

To start, we'll create a `Runtime` object and configure the streaming process. To do this, we'll utilize the setup method. More information on that method is detailed in [this tutorial](https://acquire-project.github.io/acquire-docs/tutorials/setup).

```python
import acquire

# Initialize a Runtime object
runtime = acquire.Runtime()

# Grab current configuration and
# Choose Video Source and Storage Device
config = acquire.setup(runtime, "simulated: radial sin", "Tiff")

# Specify settings
config.video[0].storage.settings.filename == "out.tif"
config.video[0].camera.settings.shape = (192, 108)
config.video[0].camera.settings.exposure_time_us = 10e4
config.video[0].max_frame_count = 10

# Update the configuration with the chosen parameters
config = runtime.set_configuration(config)
```

## Start, Stop, and Restart Acquisition

During Acquisition, the `AvailableData` object is the streaming interface. Upon shutdown, `Runtime` deletes all of the objects created during acquisition to free up resources, and you must stop acquisition by calling `runtime.stop()` to shutdown after the max frames is collected or `runtime.abort()` to shutdown immediately) between acquisitions. Otherwise, an exception will be raised.

To understand how acquisition works, we'll start, stop, and repeat acquisition and print the `DeviceState`, which can be `Armed`, `AwaitingConfiguration`, `Closed`, or `Running`, as well as print the `AvailableData` object throughout the process.

If acquisition has ended, all of the objects are deleted, including `AvailableData` objects, so those will be `None` when not acquiring data. In addition, if enough time hasn't elapsed since acquisition started, `AvailableData` will also be `None`. We'll utilize the `time` python package to introduce time delays to account for these facts.

```python
# package used to introduce time delays
import time

# start acquisition
runtime.start()

print(runtime.get_state())
print(runtime.get_available_data(0))

# wait 0.5 seconds to allow time for data to be acquired
time.sleep(0.5)

print(runtime.get_state())
print(runtime.get_available_data(0))

# stop acquisition
runtime.stop()

print(runtime.get_state())
print(runtime.get_available_data(0))

# start acquisition
runtime.start()

# time delay of 5 sec > 1 sec acquisition time
time.sleep(5)

print(runtime.get_state())
print(runtime.get_available_data(0))

# stop acquisition
runtime.stop()
```

The output will be:

```
DeviceState.Running
None
DeviceState.Running
<builtins.AvailableData object at 0x00000218D685E5B0>
DeviceState.Armed
None
DeviceState.Armed
<builtins.AvailableData object at 0x00000218D685E3D0>
```
1. The first time we print is immediately after starting acquisition, so no time has elapsed for data collection as compared to the camera exposure time, so while the camera is running, `Running`, there is no data available.

3. The next print happens after waiting 0.5 seconds, so acquisition is still runnning and now there is acquired data available.

5. The subsequent print is following calling `runtime.stop()` which waits until the specified max number of frames is collected and then terminates acquisition. Thus, the device is no longer running and there is no available data, since all objects were deleted by calling the `stop` method. The device is in an `Armed` state ready for the next acquisition.

7. The final print occurs after waiting 5 seconds following the start of acquisition. This waiting period is longer than the 1 second acqusition time (0.1 seconds/frame and 10 frames), so the device is no longer collecting data. However, `runtime.stop()` hasn't been called, so the `AvailableData` object has not yet been deleted.

[Download this tutorial as a Python script](start_stop.py){ .md-button .md-button-center }
