docs/tutorials/trig_json.md, before:

# Triggers from a JSON file

This tutorial will provide an example of saving and subsequently loading a `Trigger` object from a JSON file.

## Initialize Runtime

To start, we'll import `Acquire` and create a `Runtime` object, which coordinates the streaming process.

```python
import acquire
runtime = acquire.Runtime()
```

## Create a Trigger Object

`Trigger` objects have 4 attributes: edge, enable, line, and kind. In this example, will only adjust the edge attribute.

```python
# Instantiate a Trigger object
trig = acquire.Trigger()

# change the edge attribute from the default Rising to Falling
trig.edge = acquire.TriggerEdge.Falling
```

## Save Properties to a JSON file
We'll utilize the [json library](https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html#) to write our `Trigger` to a JSON file to save for subsequent acquisition.

```python
import json

# cast the properties to a dictionary
trig = trig.dict()

# convert the dictionary to json with "human-readable" formatting
trig = json.dumps(trig, indent=4, sort_keys=True)

# save the trigger to file "sample_trig.json" in the current directory
with open("sample_trig.json", "w") as outfile:
    outfile.write(trig)
```

## Example JSON file
The resulting sample_trig.json file is below:

~~~json
{% include "../examples/sample_trig.json" %}
~~~

## Load Properties from a JSON file
You can load the trigger attributes in the JSON file to a `Trigger` object as shown below:

```python
# Instantiate a `Trigger` object from the settings in sample_trig.json
trig = acquire.Trigger(**json.load(open('sample_trig.json')))
```

Commit message:

Add jupytext (#68)
Adds download button to all tutorials; scripts to be downloaded are only built on push to main.

docs/tutorials/trig_json.md, after:

# Triggers from a JSON file

This tutorial will provide an example of saving and subsequently loading a `Trigger` object from a JSON file.

## Initialize Runtime

To start, we'll import `Acquire` and create a `Runtime` object, which coordinates the streaming process.

```python
import acquire
runtime = acquire.Runtime()
```

## Create a Trigger Object

`Trigger` objects have 4 attributes: edge, enable, line, and kind. In this example, will only adjust the edge attribute.

```python
# Instantiate a Trigger object
trig = acquire.Trigger()

# change the edge attribute from the default Rising to Falling
trig.edge = acquire.TriggerEdge.Falling
```

## Save Properties to a JSON file
We'll utilize the [json library](https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html#) to write our `Trigger` to a JSON file to save for subsequent acquisition.

```python
import json

# cast the properties to a dictionary
trig = trig.dict()

# convert the dictionary to json with "human-readable" formatting
trig = json.dumps(trig, indent=4, sort_keys=True)

# save the trigger to file "sample_trig.json" in the current directory
with open("sample_trig.json", "w") as outfile:
    outfile.write(trig)
```

## Example JSON file
The resulting sample_trig.json file is below:

~~~json
{% include "../examples/sample_trig.json" %}
~~~

## Load Properties from a JSON file
You can load the trigger attributes in the JSON file to a `Trigger` object as shown below:

```python
# Instantiate a `Trigger` object from the settings in sample_trig.json
trig = acquire.Trigger(**json.load(open('sample_trig.json')))
```

[Download this tutorial as a Python script](trig_json.py){ .md-button .md-button-center }
